This is the first course in a 2 course sequence to introduce learners to computer programming and problem solving. In this course, students will learn about the basic elements of a computer program. Learners will learn and practice using expressions, repetition and decision making mechanisms and structures. The concept of modularity will be introduced with the implementation of methods (functions). The Java programming language will be used for this course.  This first semester focuses on console programming and general language syntax and carries through the use of file handling for data processing.  It is designed to give our Networking and Security track students enough coding skills to support their day to day work. It is designed to give our Software Dev track students a basis for Object Oriented Programming and advanced topics in the following course. 

My teaching practice assumes that you are able to read, view, and assimilate technical information.  This is a vital skill that you will need throughout your technical career as you will have to constantly learn new things.  I also expect that you can read and follow the directions and details for all course work.  You will not succeed in the course just by attending the sessions.  You will need to complete the assigned readings and video presentations outside of class.  

Daily attendance to class sessions is assumed.  This is your chance to practice the techniques you will learn with the support of your colleagues whom you can support in turn.  If you can’t attend a session, drop me and your group and e-mail.  Some of the session activities cannot be made up later if you are absent.  I always take you on your word for excused absences, you don’t have to bring in a death certificate or doctor’s note!
  
Academic dishonesty of any kind will be dealt with severely: F for the course and a referral to the Dean of Academic Affairs for further dispensation.  You are expected to complete your own work. Do not submit copies of your colleagues work or work found on the internet (Plagiarism).  If you are not present or fail to take part in a group lab, don’t expect to take any credit for it, unless you make it up by completing it on your own.
I encourage you to help one another to learn but do not supply other students with copies of your submitted work (collusion) you will receive a zero for the work if you do so. 

As a modern student, I expect you to be completely comfortable with standard e-communication methods including e-mail.  All materials for the course will be available through the Blackboard (Bb) Learning Management System (LMS).  You will need to know how to use most of the features of Bb for this course: down/uploading assignments, using the discussion board, taking online quizzes, etc. All of my courses are taught completely without paper.  You will submit all assignments electronically and only receive electronic documents from me in return.

